this is the first day to learn the unix-v6 from mit
to record the process
### Overview
6.828 teaches the fundamentals of engineering operating systems. You will study, in detail, **virtual memory**`虚拟内存`, **kernel**`内核` and **user mode**`用户态`, **system calls**`系统调用`, **threads**`线程`, **context switches**`上下文切换`, **interrupts**`中断`, **interprocess communication**`进程线通信`, **coordination of concurrent activities**, and **the interface between software and hardware**`软件与硬件的接口`. Most importantly, you will study the interactions between these concepts, and how to manage the complexity introduced by the interactions.

To master the concepts(观念), 6.828 is organized in three parts: lectures, readings, and a major lab. The lectures and readings familiarize you with the main concepts. The lab forces you to understand the concepts at a deep level, since you will build an operating system from the ground up. After the lab you will appreciate the meaning of design goals such "reducing complexity" and "conceptual integrity".

The lectures are organized in **two** main blocks. The first block introduces** one operating system**, **xv6 (x86 version 6)**, which is a re-implementation(重新实施) of **Unix Version 6**, which was developed in the 1970s. In each lecture we will take **one** part of xv6 and study its source code; homework assignments will help you prepare for these lectures. At the end of the first block (about half-way the term), you will understand the source code for one well-designed operating system for an Intel-based PC, which help you building your own operating system.

The second block of lectures **covers** important operating systems concepts invented after Unix v6. We will study the more modern concepts by reading research papers and discussing them in lecture. You will also implement some of these newer concepts in your operating system.

You may wonder why we are studying an operating system that resembles Unix v6 instead of the latest and greatest version of Linux, Windows, or BSD Unix. xv6 is big enough to illustrate the basic design and implementation ideas in operating systems. On the other hand, xv6 is far smaller than any modern production O/S, and correspondingly easier to understand. xv6 has a structure similar to many modern operating systems; once you've explored xv6 you will find much that is familiar inside kernels such as Linux.

The lab is the place where the rubber meets the road. In the lab you will internalize the details of the concepts and their interactions. For example, although you have seen virtual memory in 6.004, 6.033, and again in 6.828 lectures, you will soon discover, during the labs, that you didn't really understand virtual memory and how it interacts with other concepts.

The lab is split into 6 major parts that build on each other, culminating in a primitive operating system on which you can run simple commands through your own shell. We reserve the last lecture for you to demo your operating system to the rest of the class.

The operating system you will build, called JOS, will have Unix-like functions (e.g., fork, exec), but is implemented in an exokernel style (i.e., the Unix functions are implemented mostly as user-level library instead of built-in to the kernel). The major parts of the JOS operating system are:

Booting
Memory management
User-level environments
Preemptive multitasking
File system and spawn
A shell


We will provide skeleton(骨架) code for pieces of JOS, but you will have to do all the hard work. You'll have design freedom for the details of the first few assignments, and freedom over the whole design in the last assignments. You'll find that xv6 helps you understand many of the goals you're trying to achieve in JOS, but that JOS occupies a very different point in the design and implementation space from xv6.

The first 5 assignments are done individually. The last assignment is a team assignment.

You will develop your JOS operating system for a standard x86-based personal computer, the same one used for xv6. To simplify development we will use a complete machine simulator (Bochs) in the class for development and debugging. This simulator is real enough, however, that you will be able to boot your own operating system on physical hardware if you wish.

At the end of the lab you will be able to find your way around the source code of most operating systems, and more generally, be comfortable with system software. You will understand many operating systems concepts in detail and will be able to use them in other environments. You will also understand the x86 processor and the C programming language well.

### Tools Used in 6.828

If you use the MIT Athena machines that run Linux, then all the software tools you will need for this course are located in the 6.828 locker: just type 'add -f 6.828' to get access to them. If you would like to compile and run the tools on your own machine, however, here is the information you need. We cannot guarantee that these tools will run on your computer, but they should run on recent versions of Linux.

It should be possible to get this development environment running under windows with the help of Cygwin. Install cygwin, and be sure to install the flex and bison packages (they are under the development header).

For an overview of useful commands in the tools used in 6.828, see the lab tools guide.

#### Compiler Toolchain
Most modern Linuxes and BSDs have an ELF toolchain compatible with the 6.828 labs. That is, the system-standard gcc, as, ld and objdump should just work. The 6.828 lab makefile should automatically detect this. However, if your machine is in this camp and the makefile fails to detect this, you can override it by adding the following line to conf/env.mk:
GCCPREFIX=

If you are using something other than standard x86 Linux or BSD, you will need the GNU C compiler toolchain, configured and built as a cross-compiler for the target 'i386-jos-elf', as well as the GNU debugger, configured for the i386-jos-elf toolchain. You can download the specific versions we used via these links, although any recent versions of gcc, binutils, and GDB should work:

http://ftpmirror.gnu.org/binutils/binutils-2.20.1.tar.bz2
http://ftpmirror.gnu.org/gcc/gcc-4.5.1/gcc-core-4.5.1.tar.bz2
http://ftpmirror.gnu.org/gdb/gdb-6.8.tar.gz
Once you've unpacked these archives, run the following commands as root:

# cd binutils-2.20.1
# ./configure --target=i386-jos-elf --disable-nls
# make
# make install
# cd ../gcc-4.5.1
# ./configure --target=i386-jos-elf --disable-nls --without-headers \
              --with-newlib --disable-threads --disable-shared \
              --disable-libmudflap --disable-libssp
# make
# make install
# cd ../gdb-6.8
# ./configure --target=i386-jos-elf --program-prefix=i386-jos-elf- \
              --disable-werror
# make
# make install
Then you'll have in /usr/local/bin a bunch of binaries with names like i386-jos-elf-gcc. The lab makefile should detect this toolchain and use it in preference to your machine's default toolchain. If this doesn't work, there are instructions on how to override the toolchain inside the GNUmakefile in the labs.

### LAB1
To get started, extract the Lab 1 files into your own directory on Athena as described above in "Software Setup", then type make (or gmake on BSD systems) in the lab directory to build the minimal 6.828 boot loader and kernel you will start with. (It's a little generous to call the code we're running here a "kernel," but we'll flesh it out throughout the semester.)
